.TH CMT_INLINE_ASM 3 "LIBCMT" "CMT_INLINE_ASM" "Inline Assembly Detection"

.SH NAME
CMT_INLINE_ASM \- Detect compiler inline assembly support and syntax type

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #define INCL__INLINE_ASM
.br
.B #include <LIBCMT/LIBCMT.h>

.SH FILES
LIBCMT/CHECK_FEATURE/INLINE_ASM.h

.SH DESCRIPTION
This header determines whether inline assembly is supported and identifies the syntax format used by the compiler.
A specific macro is defined for the matching assembly style.

.SH MACROS
.TP
.B IS__INLINE_ASM__SUPPORTED
Defined if the compiler supports inline assembly.

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__GNU
GNU-style extended inline asm (GCC, Clang).

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__MSVC
Microsoft Visual C++ block-style asm.

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__BORLAND
Borland/Turbo C simple inline asm.

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__AZTEC
Aztec C block-style asm.

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__LATTICE
Lattice C string-style asm (e.g., 68K/Amiga).

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__INTEL_MS
Intel C single-line MS-style asm.

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__WATCOM
Watcom pragma/block-style asm.

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__ARM
ARM compiler constraint-style asm.

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__KEIL
Keil pragma-based embedded asm.

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__HCCF
HC(S)/ColdFire inline asm.

.TP
.B INLINE_ASM_TYPE__ISO
ISO-C compliant inline asm form.

.SH PURPOSE
Provides portable detection so code can adapt to different asm syntaxes.
See INLINE_ASM_TABLE.md for architecture and compiler support.

.SH EXAMPLES
GNU:
.nf
asm("movl %1, %0" : "=r"(result) : "r"(input_var));
.fi

MSVC:
.nf
__asm {
    mov eax, input_var
    mov result, eax
}
.fi

Borland:
.nf
asm mov eax, input_var
asm mov result, eax
.fi

Aztec:
.nf
asm {
    mov ax, input_var
    mov result, ax
}
.fi

Lattice:
.nf
asm("move.l input_var,d0");
asm("move.l d0,result");
.fi

Intel MS:
.nf
__asm mov eax, input_var
__asm mov result, eax
.fi

Watcom:
.nf
_asm {
    mov eax, input_var
    mov result, eax
}
.fi

ARM:
.nf
__asm("mov %0,%1" : "=r"(result) : "r"(input_var));
.fi

Keil:
.nf
#pragma asm
MOV A,#input_var
MOV result,A
#pragma endasm
.fi

HCCF:
.nf
asm LDAA input_var
asm STAA result
.fi

ISO:
.nf
__asm__ __volatile__(
    "movl %0, %%eax;"
    "movl %%eax, %1;"
    : "r"(input_var), "r"(result)
    : "=r"(result)
    : "r"(input_var)
    : "%eax"
);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.B LIBCMT(3)

.SH AUTHOR
Teoman Deniz <te.odenizgml@gmail.com>
