.TH CMT_REGPARM 3 "LIBCMT" "CMT_REGPARM" "Register-Passing Attribute"

.SH NAME
CMT_REGPARM \- Pass function arguments through CPU registers

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #define INCL__REGPARM
.br
.B #include <LIBCMT/LIBCMT.h>

.SH FILES
LIBCMT/ATTRIBUTES/REGPARM.h

.SH DESCRIPTION
REGPARM applies a compiler attribute that forces a function to receive its parameters through CPU registers instead of stack memory.

You must specify how many arguments should be passed via registers:
.B REGPARM(<count>)

.SH MACROS
.TP
.B REGPARM(n), regparm(n)
Marks a function so that the first
.I n
arguments are passed through registers.

.SH USAGE
Optionally combine with the C
.B register
keyword for parameters.

Apply the same REGPARM attribute to both the function definition and its prototype.

.SH EXAMPLES
Basic:
.nf
void REGPARM(1) func(int b)
{
    ...
}

void REGPARM(2) func(int a, int b)
{
    ...
}

void regparm(4) func(int a, float b, long c, char *d)
{
    ...
}
.fi

Optimized:
.nf
void regparm(2) func(
    register int a,
    register float b,
    register char *c
)
{
    ...
}
.fi

Prototype requirement:
.nf
void REGPARM(2) FUNCT(int A, int B) { ... }
extern void REGPARM(2) FUNCT(int A, int B);
.fi

.SH NOTES
- Minimizes stack operations by keeping arguments in registers.
- Reduces memory loads/pushes during function calls.
- Behavior depends on compiler and architecture.
- Mark prototypes and definitions consistently.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B LIBCMT(3)

.SH AUTHOR
Teoman Deniz <te.odenizgml@gmail.com> 
