.TH LIBCMT 3 "2025-11-09" "1.0" "LIBCMT C Library Extension"
.SH NAME
LIBCMT \- modular and portable C library extension
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \#include "LIBCMT/LIBCMT.h"
.br
.B \#include "LIBCMT/LIBCMT.hpp"  \- for C++
.br
.IP "Optional Modular Include:"
Predefine
.B INCL__<MODULE>
macros before including LIBCMT.h to selectively include modules.
.SH DESCRIPTION
LIBCMT provides essential tools and features missing from the standard C library, fully compatible with all compilers and platforms.
If no
.B INCL__...
macro is defined, all modules are included by default.

.SH MODULES
.TP
.B OBJECT (CMT_OBJECT)
Implements basic OOP features in C.
.TP
.B RAX (CMT_RAX)
Read or write the RAX/X0 register. (WIP)
.TP
.B FAR (CMT_FAR)
Handles memory chunks larger than 64 KB on 16-bit systems.
.TP
.B PACK (CMT_PACK)
Packs and removes padding bytes from structures.
.TP
.B REGPARM (CMT_REGPARM)
Pass arguments via CPU registers. (WIP)
.TP
.B COMMA OPERATOR (CMT_COMMA_OPERATOR)
Macro defined if compiler supports comma operator.
.TP
.B INLINE ASM (CMT_INLINE_ASM)
Macro defined if inline assembly is supported; specify syntax type.
.TP
.B TOKEN PASTNG (CMT_TOKEN_PASTNG)
Macro defined if token pasting is supported by the compiler.
.TP
.B ARCHITECTURE (CMT_ARCHITECTURE)
Retrieve CPU architecture information.
.TP
.B CPU (CMT_CPU)
Retrieve CPU information at runtime.
.TP
.B KNR_STYLE (CMT_KNR_STYLE)
Macro determining if compiler uses ANSI C or K&R 1989 style.
.TP
.B DLL (CMT_DLL)
Cross-platform dynamic library functions.
.TP
.B PREFETCH (CMT_PREFETCH)
Reduce cache-miss latency. (WIP)
.TP
.B READ_FILE (CMT_READ_FILE)
Read file content. (WIP)
.TP
.B THREAD (CMT_THREAD)
Manage multithreading across platforms.
.TP
.B IGNORE_VAR (CMT_IGNORE_VAR)
Tag variables to ignore unused warnings.
.TP
.B INLINE (CMT_INLINE)
Inline functions for supported compilers.
.TP
.B LOCAL (CMT_LOCAL)
Ensure each thread has independent copy of global/static variables.
.TP
.B NORETURN (CMT_NORETURN)
Optimize functions with direct exit.
.TP
.B TRY_CATCH (CMT_TRY_CATCH)
Use try, catch(), throw() syntax in C (like JavaScript).
.TP
.B UNUSED (CMT_UNUSED)
Tag functions to ignore unused warnings.
.TP
.B VA_ARGS (CMT_VA_ARGS)
Make va_args work on older compilers (pre-C89).
.TP
.B Icons
Inspired by Windows 2000 style; original creations, not affiliated with Microsoft.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B CMT_ARCHITECTURE(3),
.B CMT_ASM(3),
.B CMT_COMMA_OPERATOR(3),
.B CMT_CPU(3),
.B CMT_DLL(3),
.B CMT_FAR(3),
.B CMT_IGNORE_VAR(3),
.B CMT_INLINE(3),
.B CMT_INLINE_ASM(3),
.B CMT_KNR_STYLE(3),
.B CMT_LOCAL(3),
.B CMT_NORETURN(3),
.B CMT_OBJECT(3),
.B CMT_PACK(3),
.B CMT_PREFETCH(3),
.B CMT_RAX(3),
.B CMT_READ_FILE(3),
.B CMT_REGPARM(3),
.B CMT_THREAD(3),
.B CMT_TOKEN_PASTNG(3),
.B CMT_TRY_CATCH(3),
.B CMT_UNUSED(3),
.B CMT_VA_ARGS(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Teoman Deniz <te.odenizgml@gmail.com>
